que :- What are negative indexes and why are they used?


What is Negative Indexing? 
Indexing is a way of accessing individual items or elements of a sequence by their position or order within the sequence. For example, if you have a list of numbers, you can use indexing to get the first, second, third, or any other element of the list.

In Python, indexing starts from zero, which means that the first element of a sequence has an index of 0, the second element has an index of 1, and so on.

How Does Negative Indexing Work? 

You might be wondering how Python knows which element to return when you use a negative index. How does it translate a negative number into a position within a sequence?

The answer is simple: Python adds the length of the sequence to the negative index to get the corresponding positive index. For example, if you have a list with four elements and you use an index of -1, Python will add 4 (the length of the list) to -1 (the index) and get 3 (the positive index). Then it will return the element at position 3 in the list.

In general, if you have a sequence with n elements and you use an index of -i (where i is a positive integer), Python will add n (the length of the sequence) to -i (the index) and get n-i (the positive index). Then it will return the element at position n-i in the sequence.

Here is a diagram that illustrates this process:

Negative Indexing Diagram
As you can see, negative indexing is a convenient way of accessing elements from the end of a sequence without having to calculate their positive indexes.

How to Use Negative Indexing in Python? 
You can use negative indexing in Python with any sequence type, such as lists, strings, tuples, or ranges. You can also use negative indexing with slicing, which is a way of getting a subsequence or a part of a sequence.

Here are some examples and use cases of negative indexing in Python:

Getting the last element of a sequence. You can use an index of -1 to get the last element of any sequence.